
This is the help menu for the "Custom" page of MathTreadmill ("/custom").

You can read this if you do not understand how to use /custom
(if you are an average user who is seeing the custom page for the first time, this will likely be the case).

if you had unsaved changes on the preset you were just editing, they are gone now
lol

It is helpful to have a tab open of this help page, as well as a tab open of the /custom page on MathTreadmill.
To do this, duplicate the current tab (right-click the current tab and select "Duplicate")
and then go backwards in history (on Firefox and Chrome, you can do Alt + left arrow)

Presets
	A preset is basically just a collection of questions.
	For example, you might have a preset specifically for practicing doing 1x1 to 20x20 multiplication in less than 10 seconds,
	and a different preset for doing 4 digit addition in under 20 seconds.

Questions
	In /custom, you can create different questions. Note that you create templates of questions, not individual computations.
	For example, you might tell /custom "Give me multiplication questions from 10x10 to 30x50"
	(but you wouldn't actually input every single question combination).
	When practicing the current preset, you will be shown random questions from your list.
	So, if you had one question for addition (1 + 1 to 100 + 100), and another question for powers of two (2^2 to 2^15),
	you will see addition questions 50% of the time, and exponent questions the other 50%

	Question settings
		Type
			This setting is pretty self explanatory
			Choose "Addition" if you want to practice addition, etc.

		Min1, Max1, Min2, Max2
			Used to decide which values your questions will have when practicing
			Here is how questions are generated (RNG(min, max)):

			Addition:
			x = RNG(Min1, Max1)
			y = RNG(Min2, Max2)
			question: "What is x + y?" or "What is y + x"?
			answer: x + y

			Multiplication:
			x = RNG(Min1, Max1)
			y = RNG(Min2, Max2)
			question: "What is x × y?" or "What is y × x?"
			answer: x * y

			Division:
			x = RNG(Min1, Max1)
			y = RNG(Min2, Max2)
			question: "What is (x*y) ÷ y?" or "What is (x*y) ÷ x?"
			answer: y or y, respectively
			this one is kind of weird (to avoid having non-integer answers)

			Exponents:
			x = RNG(Min1, Max1)
			y = RNG(Min2, Max2)
			question: "What is x ^ y?"
			answer: x**y (no "or"s, obviously)

			Roots:
			x = RNG(Min1, Max1)
			y = RNG(Min2, Max2)
			question: "What is yth root of (x**y)?"
			answer: x

			Subtraction:
			this one is a bit different, which is why I showed it last
			there is an extra option for Subtraction: AN ("Allow negatives?")
			if set to yes, questions like 5 - 7 where y > x are valid
			if set to no, questions like 5 - 7 will not be generated
			yes:
				x = RNG(Min1, Max1)
				y = RNG(Min2, Max2)
				question: "What is x - y?"
				answer: x - y
			no:
				x = RNG(Min1, Max1)
				y = RNG(Min2, Max2)
				question: "What is (x+y) - y?" or "What is (x+y) - y?"
				answer: x or y, respectively

Sample Button
	understanding the min and max options can be confusing, so the Sample buttons lets you see an example of a question
	that would be generated using your current settings

	if one of your inputs is invalid, it will instead say "Invalid options set"
	however, it is possible that your inputs are valid and it still shows you the message
	
	in this case, you must re-enter your Min1, Max1, Min2, Max3
	make sure to wait a second after entering each value before clicking off/hitting Tab, though
	since the values are actually set using the "onkeyup" trigger, clicking off before you technically unpress a key is possible

Preset Settings
	Time (Time remaining)
		the amount of time you initially start with per question
		this is also the amount of time that will be resetted to if you run out of time on a question
		
	Dec (Decrement)
		The amount of time that is removed from your starting time each time you answer a question correctly
		so, if your "Time" is set to 20 (seconds), and your "Dec" is set to 0.5 (seconds),
		you will initially have 20 seconds to answer the first question
		if you get it right, you will have 19.5 seconds to answer the second question

		let's say you start the training session with these settings and answer 10 questions correctly in a row
		20 - (0.5 * 10) = 20 - 5 = 15, so you will have 15 seconds to answer the 11th question
		if you fail that 11th question, your time will be set back to 20, since that is your reset time ("Time")

		etc.

Preset Saving Explained
	if you make changes to one of your presets, it will only be saved if you "Start" that preset
	if you make a new preset (by selecting the "New Preset" option when signed in), it will be discarded if you switch back to an existing preset
	to save your new preset, you again have to "Start" it by clicking the "Start" button
	starting a preset while you are on the "Select a preset..." option will let you use temporary settings
	they will be discarded when you close the tab, so make sure to actually create a new preset if you plan on using the same settings in the future
	when using /custom while not signed in, none of your settings will be saved

Start Button
	by default the start button will not let you start, saying "Invalid options set"
	to fix this, make sure your options are... valid...

	so don't leave any inputs blank, etc.

Delete Button
	the delete button is used to delete questions and presets
	click it and follow the instructions if you want to delete a preset or a question



Also, sorry about the /custom page being generally slow and clunky... If I knew how to fix it, I would


